README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Radix Pulse</h1>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://socialify.git.ci/MostafaSensei106/Radix_Pulse/image?custom_language=Dart&font=KoHo&language=1&logo=https%3A%2F%2Favatars.githubusercontent.com%2Fu%2F138288138%3Fv%3D4&name=1&owner=1&pattern=Floating+Cogs&theme=Light" alt="Radix Pulse Banner">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>A high-performance, in-place Radix Sort library for Dart and Flutter.</strong><br>
  Fast. Efficient. Low-level sorting for number-intensive applications.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#about">About</a> •
  <a href="#features">Features</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#usage-examples">Usage</a> •
  <a href="#benchmarks">Benchmarks</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

---

## About

Welcome to **Radix Pulse** — a blazing-fast, in-place sorting library for Dart and Flutter.
Radix Pulse provides a set of highly optimized, stable sorting algorithms that can be significantly faster than `List.sort()` for specific data types, especially large lists of numbers (`int`, `double`, and `BigInt`). It uses low-level byte manipulation to achieve top-tier performance, making it ideal for data-intensive applications, scientific computing, and real-time data processing.

---

## Features

### 🌟 Core Functionality
- **Multi-Type Support**: Sorts `List<int>`, `List<double>`, and `List<BigInt>`.
- **Stable Sort**: Preserves the relative order of equal elements.
- **Unified Integer API**: A single function, `radixSortInt`, handles both signed and unsigned integers.
- **Comprehensive Float Support**: `radixSortDouble` correctly handles positive/negative values, infinities, and zero.

### 🛠️ Advanced Capabilities
- **Parallel Sorting**: `radixSortParallelUnsigned` leverages multiple CPU cores using Isolates to sort very large lists even faster.
- **Memory Efficiency**: Includes a buffer pooling mechanism (`reuseBuffer: true`) to minimize GC pressure during frequent sorting tasks.
- **Zero-Copy Operations**: Works directly on `TypedData` lists (`Int32List`, `Float64List`, etc.) to avoid unnecessary memory copies.
- **Adaptive Algorithms**: Uses hybrid strategies (like switching to insertion sort for small sub-lists) for optimal performance across different data sizes.

---

## Installation

### 📦 Add to your project

1.  Add this to your package's `pubspec.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    dependencies:
      radix_pulse: ^1.0.0 # Replace with the latest version
    ```

2.  Install it from your terminal:

    ```bash
    dart pub get
    ```
    or
    ```bash
    flutter pub get
    ```

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

Import the library and call the appropriate sorting function.

```dart
import 'package:radix_pulse/radix_pulse.dart';

// Sort a list of signed integers
final numbers = [40, -1, 900, -10, 0, 5];
radixSortInt(numbers); // Automatically handles signed integers
print(numbers); // [-10, -1, 0, 5, 40, 900]
```

---

## 📋 Usage Examples

### Sorting Integers
Use `radixSortInt` for both signed and unsigned integer lists.

```dart
// Sort a list of signed integers (ascending)
final signedNumbers = [40, -1, 900, -10, 0, 5];
radixSortInt(signedNumbers, ascending: true);
print(signedNumbers); // [-10, -1, 0, 5, 40, 900]

// Sort a list of unsigned integers (descending)
final unsignedNumbers = [40, 1, 900, 10, 5];
radixSortInt(unsignedNumbers, signed: false, ascending: false);
print(unsignedNumbers); // [900, 40, 10, 5, 1]
```

### Sorting Doubles
Use `radixSortDouble` for `List<double>`.

```dart
final doubleNumbers = [10.5, -1.2, 900.0, -10.0, 0.0];
radixSortDouble(doubleNumbers);
print(doubleNumbers); // [-10.0, -1.2, 0.0, 10.5, 900.0]
```

### Sorting BigInts
Use `radixSortBigInt` for `List<BigInt>`.

```dart
final bigIntNumbers = [
  BigInt.parse('100000000000000000000'),
  BigInt.from(-100),
  BigInt.parse('-200000000000000000000'),
  BigInt.zero,
];
radixSortBigInt(bigIntNumbers);
print(bigIntNumbers);
```

### Parallel Sorting
For very large lists, `radixSortParallelUnsigned` can provide a significant speed boost.

> **Note**: Parallel sorting is not available on the Web platform.

```dart
// A large list of numbers
final largeList = List.generate(1000000, (i) => 999999 - i);

// Sort it in parallel across multiple isolates
await radixSortParallelUnsigned(largeList);

print(largeList.first); // 0
print(largeList.last); // 999999
```

---

## 🚀 Blazing Fast Performance

Performance is the core feature of Radix Pulse. Our algorithms are consistently faster than the standard `List.sort()` for large numerical datasets, often by a significant margin.

Here are the results from our benchmarks, running on a standard development machine with a list of **1,000,000 random elements**:

### Sorting `List<int>` (32-bit Signed Integers)

| Method               | Average Time (ms) | Speedup vs. `List.sort()` |
| -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `List.sort()`        | ~1020             | 1.0x                      |
| **`radixSortInt`**   | **~281**          | **~3.6x faster**          |

### Sorting `List<double>` (64-bit Doubles)

| Method                  | Average Time (ms) | Speedup vs. `List.sort()` |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `List.sort()`           | ~4083             | 1.0x                      |
| **`radixSortDouble`**   | **~776**          | **~5.3x faster**          |

### Sorting `List<BigInt>`

| Method                  | Average Time (ms) | Speedup vs. `List.sort()` |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `List.sort()`           | ~8666             | 1.0x                      |
| **`radixSortBigInt`**   | **~1481**         | **~5.8x faster**          |

---

*Your results may vary based on hardware, data distribution, and list size. To run the benchmarks yourself, see the [benchmark/results.md](./benchmark/results.md) file.*

---

## Technologies

| Technology | Description |
|---|---|
| 🧠 **Dart** | [dart.dev](https://dart.dev) — The core language for the library. |
| ⚡ **Isolates** | `dart:isolate` — Used for parallel sorting to leverage multiple CPU cores. |
| 💾 **TypedData** | `dart:typed_data` — Used for low-level, efficient memory manipulation. |
| 🧪 **benchmark_harness** | A framework for creating and running performance benchmarks. |

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here’s how to get started:

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch:
    `git checkout -b feature/YourFeature`
3.  Commit your changes:
    `git commit -m "Add amazing feature"`
4.  Push to your branch:
    `git push origin feature/YourFeature`
5.  Open a pull request.

> 💡 Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and open an issue first for major feature ideas or changes.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**.
See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for full details.
<p align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/MostafaSensei106">MostafaSensei106</a>
</p>

Commit message:

fix(core): Resolve linting issues and refine parallel export logic
Update benchmark documentation in README and results.md with improved methodology and new performance data.
Add publishing metadata and topics to pubspec.yaml.
Update CHANGELOG for version 1.0.1.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Radix Pulse</h1>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://socialify.git.ci/MostafaSensei106/Radix_Pulse/image?custom_language=Dart&font=KoHo&language=1&logo=https%3A%2F%2Favatars.githubusercontent.com%2Fu%2F138288138%3Fv%3D4&name=1&owner=1&pattern=Floating+Cogs&theme=Light" alt="Radix Pulse Banner">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>A high-performance, in-place Radix Sort library for Dart and Flutter.</strong><br>
  Fast. Efficient. Low-level sorting for number-intensive applications.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#about">About</a> •
  <a href="#features">Features</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#usage-examples">Usage</a> •
  <a href="#benchmarks">Benchmarks</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

---

## About

Welcome to **Radix Pulse** — a blazing-fast, in-place sorting library for Dart and Flutter.
Radix Pulse provides a set of highly optimized, stable sorting algorithms that can be significantly faster than `List.sort()` for specific data types, especially large lists of numbers (`int`, `double`, and `BigInt`). It uses low-level byte manipulation to achieve top-tier performance, making it ideal for data-intensive applications, scientific computing, and real-time data processing.

---

## Features

### 🌟 Core Functionality
- **Multi-Type Support**: Sorts `List<int>`, `List<double>`, and `List<BigInt>`.
- **Stable Sort**: Preserves the relative order of equal elements.
- **Unified Integer API**: A single function, `radixSortInt`, handles both signed and unsigned integers.
- **Comprehensive Float Support**: `radixSortDouble` correctly handles positive/negative values, infinities, and zero.

### 🛠️ Advanced Capabilities
- **Parallel Sorting**: `radixSortParallelUnsigned` leverages multiple CPU cores using Isolates to sort very large lists even faster.
- **Memory Efficiency**: Includes a buffer pooling mechanism (`reuseBuffer: true`) to minimize GC pressure during frequent sorting tasks.
- **Zero-Copy Operations**: Works directly on `TypedData` lists (`Int32List`, `Float64List`, etc.) to avoid unnecessary memory copies.
- **Adaptive Algorithms**: Uses hybrid strategies (like switching to insertion sort for small sub-lists) for optimal performance across different data sizes.

---

## Installation

### 📦 Add to your project

1.  Add this to your package's `pubspec.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    dependencies:
      radix_pulse: ^1.0.0 # Replace with the latest version
    ```

2.  Install it from your terminal:

    ```bash
    dart pub get
    ```
    or
    ```bash
    flutter pub get
    ```

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

Import the library and call the appropriate sorting function.

```dart
import 'package:radix_pulse/radix_pulse.dart';

// Sort a list of signed integers
final numbers = [40, -1, 900, -10, 0, 5];
radixSortInt(numbers); // Automatically handles signed integers
print(numbers); // [-10, -1, 0, 5, 40, 900]
```

---

## 📋 Usage Examples

### Sorting Integers
Use `radixSortInt` for both signed and unsigned integer lists.

```dart
// Sort a list of signed integers (ascending)
final signedNumbers = [40, -1, 900, -10, 0, 5];
radixSortInt(signedNumbers, ascending: true);
print(signedNumbers); // [-10, -1, 0, 5, 40, 900]

// Sort a list of unsigned integers (descending)
final unsignedNumbers = [40, 1, 900, 10, 5];
radixSortInt(unsignedNumbers, signed: false, ascending: false);
print(unsignedNumbers); // [900, 40, 10, 5, 1]
```

### Sorting Doubles
Use `radixSortDouble` for `List<double>`.

```dart
final doubleNumbers = [10.5, -1.2, 900.0, -10.0, 0.0];
radixSortDouble(doubleNumbers);
print(doubleNumbers); // [-10.0, -1.2, 0.0, 10.5, 900.0]
```

### Sorting BigInts
Use `radixSortBigInt` for `List<BigInt>`.

```dart
final bigIntNumbers = [
  BigInt.parse('100000000000000000000'),
  BigInt.from(-100),
  BigInt.parse('-200000000000000000000'),
  BigInt.zero,
];
radixSortBigInt(bigIntNumbers);
print(bigIntNumbers);
```

### Parallel Sorting
For very large lists, `radixSortParallelUnsigned` can provide a significant speed boost.

> **Note**: Parallel sorting is not available on the Web platform.

```dart
// A large list of numbers
final largeList = List.generate(1000000, (i) => 999999 - i);

// Sort it in parallel across multiple isolates
await radixSortParallelUnsigned(largeList);

print(largeList.first); // 0
print(largeList.last); // 999999
```

---

## 🚀 Blazing Fast Performance

Performance is the core feature of Radix Pulse. Our algorithms are consistently faster than the standard `List.sort()` for large numerical datasets, often by a significant margin.

To ensure accuracy, the results below are the **average of 10 separate benchmark runs** on a standard development machine, each sorting a list of **1,000,000 random elements**.

### Sorting `List<int>` (32-bit Signed Integers)

| Method               | Average Time (ms) | Speedup vs. `List.sort()` |
| -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `List.sort()`        | ~1071             | 1.0x                      |
| **`radixSortInt`**   | **~312**          | **~3.4x faster**          |

### Sorting `List<double>` (64-bit Doubles)

| Method                  | Average Time (ms) | Speedup vs. `List.sort()` |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `List.sort()`           | ~3623             | 1.0x                      |
| **`radixSortDouble`**   | **~916**          | **~4.0x faster**          |

### Sorting `List<BigInt>`

| Method                  | Average Time (ms) | Speedup vs. `List.sort()` |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `List.sort()`           | ~9579             | 1.0x                      |
| **`radixSortBigInt`**   | **~1621**         | **~5.9x faster**          |

---

*Your results may vary based on hardware, data distribution, and list size. For more details on the methodology, see the [benchmark/results.md](./benchmark/results.md) file.*

---

## Technologies

| Technology | Description |
|---|---|
| 🧠 **Dart** | [dart.dev](https://dart.dev) — The core language for the library. |
| ⚡ **Isolates** | `dart:isolate` — Used for parallel sorting to leverage multiple CPU cores. |
| 💾 **TypedData** | `dart:typed_data` — Used for low-level, efficient memory manipulation. |
| 🧪 **benchmark_harness** | A framework for creating and running performance benchmarks. |

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here’s how to get started:

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch:
    `git checkout -b feature/YourFeature`
3.  Commit your changes:
    `git commit -m "Add amazing feature"`
4.  Push to your branch:
    `git push origin feature/YourFeature`
5.  Open a pull request.

> 💡 Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and open an issue first for major feature ideas or changes.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**.
See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for full details.
<p align="center">
  Made with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/MostafaSensei106">MostafaSensei106</a>
</p>
